README.md, before:

# Processing gravity data with Harmonica

The [Harmonica tutorial at Transform 21](http://schedule.softwareunderground.org/) 💚

Instructors:
[Santiago Soler](https://santisoler.github.io)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Andra Balza Morales](https://www.andreabalza.com/)<sup>3</sup> and
[Agustina Pesce](https://aguspesce.github.io/)<sup>1,2</sup>

> <sup>1</sup> CONICET, Argentina
> <br>
> <sup>2</sup> Instituto Geofísico Sismológico Volponi, UNSJ, Argentina
> <br>
> <sup>3</sup> RWTH Aachen, Applied Geophysics and Geothermal Energy, Germany


|         | Info |
|--------:|:-----|
| When | Thursday, April 22 • 17:00 - 19:00 GMT |
| Slack (Q&A) | [Software Underground](https://softwareunderground.org/) channel `t21-thurs-fatiando` |
| Live stream | https://youtu.be/0bxZcCAr6bw |
| conda environment  | `t21-thurs-fatiando` |
| Harmonica documentation | https://www.fatiando.org/harmonica |


## BEFORE THE TUTORIAL

Make sure you've done these things **before the tutorial on Thursday**:

1. Sign-up for the [Software Underground Slack](https://softwareunderground.org/slack)
1. Join the channel `t21-thurs-fatiando`. This is where **all communication will
   happen**.
1. Set up your computer ([instructions below](#setup)). We will not have time to
   solve many computer issues during the tutorial so make sure you do this
   ahead of time. If you need any help, ask at the `t21-thurs-fatiando` channel on
   Slack.

## About


## Prerequisites

* Some knowledge of Python is assumed (for example, you might want to attend
  [this](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jm/getting-started-with-python) or
  [this](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jn/more-python-for-subsurface) tutorial).
* All coding will be done in Jupyter notebooks. I'll explain how they work
  briefly but it will help if you've used them before.
* We'll use [numpy](https://numpy.org/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/),
  [xarray](http://xarray.pydata.org/), and [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/).
  You don't need to be an expert in these tools but some familiarity will help.


## Setup

There are a few things you'll need to follow the tutorial:

1. A working Python installation (Anaconda or Miniconda)
2. The Harmonica tutorial *conda environment* installed
3. A web browser that works with JupyterLab
   (basically anything except Internet Explorer)

To get things setup, please do the following.

**If you have any trouble**, please ask for help in the
`t21-thurs-fatiando` channel on the Software Underground slack.

**Windows users:** When you see "*terminal*" in the instructions,
this means the "*Anaconda Prompt*" program for you.

### Step 1

**Follow the general instructions for Transform21:**

> Insert link to instructions

This will get you a working Python 3 installation with the `conda` package
manager. If you already have one, you can skip this step.

### Step 2

**Create the `t21-thurs-fatiando` conda environment:**

1. Download the `environment.yml` file from
   [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fatiando/transform21/master/environment.yml)
   (right-click and select "Save page as" or similar)
1. Make sure that the file is called `environment.yml`. Windows sometimes adds a
   `.txt` to the end, which you should remove.
1. Open a terminal. The following steps should be done in the terminal.
1. Navigate to the folder that has the downloaded environment file
   (if you don't know how to do this, take a moment to read [the Software
   Carpentry lesson on the Unix shell](http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/)).
1. Create the conda environment by running `conda env create --file environment.yml`
   (this will download and install all of the packages used in the tutorial).

### Step 3

**Verify that the installation works:**

1. Download the `test_install.py` script from
   [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fatiando/transform21/master/test_install.py)
1. Open a terminal. The following steps should be done in the terminal.
1. Activate the environment: `conda activate t21-thurs-fatiando`
1. Navigate to the folder where you downloaded `test_install.py`
1. Run the test script: `python test_install.py`

> Insert the expected outcome of `python test_install` as last item(s) of the
> list

If none of these commands gives an error, then your installation should be working.
If you get any errors or the outputs look significantly different,
please let us know on Slack at `#t21-thurs-fatiando`.

### Step 4

**Start Jupyter notebook:**

1. **Windows users:** Make sure you set a default browser that is **not Internet Explorer**.
1. Activate the conda environment: `conda activate t21-thurs-harmonica`
1. Start the Jupyter notebook server: `jupyter notebook`
1. Jupyter should open in your default web browser. We'll start from here in the
   tutorial and create a new notebook together.

### IF EVERYTHING ELSE FAILS

If you really can't get things to work on your computer,
you can run the code online through Google Colab (you will need a Google account).
A starter notebook that installs Harmonica can be found here:

> insert link to starter notebook

To save a copy of the Colab notebook to your own account, click on the
"Open in playground mode" and then "Save to Drive".
You might be interested in
[this tutorial](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jn/tutorial-using-python-subsurface-tools-no-install-required)
for an overview of Google Colab.

Commit message:

Rename Slack channel to t21-thurs-harmonica

README.md, after:

# Processing gravity data with Harmonica

The [Harmonica tutorial at Transform 21](http://schedule.softwareunderground.org/) 💚

Instructors:
[Santiago Soler](https://santisoler.github.io)<sup>1,2</sup>,
[Andra Balza Morales](https://www.andreabalza.com/)<sup>3</sup> and
[Agustina Pesce](https://aguspesce.github.io/)<sup>1,2</sup>

> <sup>1</sup> CONICET, Argentina
> <br>
> <sup>2</sup> Instituto Geofísico Sismológico Volponi, UNSJ, Argentina
> <br>
> <sup>3</sup> RWTH Aachen, Applied Geophysics and Geothermal Energy, Germany


|         | Info |
|--------:|:-----|
| When | Thursday, April 22 • 17:00 - 19:00 GMT |
| Slack (Q&A) | [Software Underground](https://softwareunderground.org/) channel `t21-thurs-harmonica` |
| Live stream | https://youtu.be/0bxZcCAr6bw |
| conda environment  | `t21-thurs-harmonica` |
| Harmonica documentation | https://www.fatiando.org/harmonica |


## BEFORE THE TUTORIAL

Make sure you've done these things **before the tutorial on Thursday**:

1. Sign-up for the [Software Underground Slack](https://softwareunderground.org/slack)
1. Join the channel `t21-thurs-harmonica`. This is where **all communication will
   happen**.
1. Set up your computer ([instructions below](#setup)). We will not have time to
   solve many computer issues during the tutorial so make sure you do this
   ahead of time. If you need any help, ask at the `t21-thurs-harmonica` channel on
   Slack.

## About


## Prerequisites

* Some knowledge of Python is assumed (for example, you might want to attend
  [this](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jm/getting-started-with-python) or
  [this](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jn/more-python-for-subsurface) tutorial).
* All coding will be done in Jupyter notebooks. I'll explain how they work
  briefly but it will help if you've used them before.
* We'll use [numpy](https://numpy.org/), [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/),
  [xarray](http://xarray.pydata.org/), and [matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/).
  You don't need to be an expert in these tools but some familiarity will help.


## Setup

There are a few things you'll need to follow the tutorial:

1. A working Python installation (Anaconda or Miniconda)
2. The Harmonica tutorial *conda environment* installed
3. A web browser that works with JupyterLab
   (basically anything except Internet Explorer)

To get things setup, please do the following.

**If you have any trouble**, please ask for help in the
`t21-thurs-harmonica` channel on the Software Underground slack.

**Windows users:** When you see "*terminal*" in the instructions,
this means the "*Anaconda Prompt*" program for you.

### Step 1

**Follow the general instructions for Transform21:**

> Insert link to instructions

This will get you a working Python 3 installation with the `conda` package
manager. If you already have one, you can skip this step.

### Step 2

**Create the `t21-thurs-harmonica` conda environment:**

1. Download the `environment.yml` file from
   [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fatiando/transform21/master/environment.yml)
   (right-click and select "Save page as" or similar)
1. Make sure that the file is called `environment.yml`. Windows sometimes adds a
   `.txt` to the end, which you should remove.
1. Open a terminal. The following steps should be done in the terminal.
1. Navigate to the folder that has the downloaded environment file
   (if you don't know how to do this, take a moment to read [the Software
   Carpentry lesson on the Unix shell](http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/)).
1. Create the conda environment by running `conda env create --file environment.yml`
   (this will download and install all of the packages used in the tutorial).

### Step 3

**Verify that the installation works:**

1. Download the `test_install.py` script from
   [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fatiando/transform21/master/test_install.py)
1. Open a terminal. The following steps should be done in the terminal.
1. Activate the environment: `conda activate t21-thurs-harmonica`
1. Navigate to the folder where you downloaded `test_install.py`
1. Run the test script: `python test_install.py`

> Insert the expected outcome of `python test_install` as last item(s) of the
> list

If none of these commands gives an error, then your installation should be working.
If you get any errors or the outputs look significantly different,
please let us know on Slack at `#t21-thurs-harmonica`.

### Step 4

**Start Jupyter notebook:**

1. **Windows users:** Make sure you set a default browser that is **not Internet Explorer**.
1. Activate the conda environment: `conda activate t21-thurs-harmonica`
1. Start the Jupyter notebook server: `jupyter notebook`
1. Jupyter should open in your default web browser. We'll start from here in the
   tutorial and create a new notebook together.

### IF EVERYTHING ELSE FAILS

If you really can't get things to work on your computer,
you can run the code online through Google Colab (you will need a Google account).
A starter notebook that installs Harmonica can be found here:

> insert link to starter notebook

To save a copy of the Colab notebook to your own account, click on the
"Open in playground mode" and then "Save to Drive".
You might be interested in
[this tutorial](https://transform2020.sched.com/event/c7Jn/tutorial-using-python-subsurface-tools-no-install-required)
for an overview of Google Colab.
